I've set us up already, and
this is because lenses are so simple.
They're so complex,
it's like a really deep subject,
you can do anything and
everything with lenses.
You can do everything you can with
functors with lenses which are built
on functors, and the way we're gonna
just use lenses is pretty light,
but know that you can do
the most amazing things,
you can rewrite every app in just lenses.
[LAUGH] Although, I think that a lot of
people have push back because Haskell and
other lens libraries defined it in terms
of all these little squiggly operators and
it's just like what is this?
It doesn't read right, so that's one
drawback of lenses in those languages.
Here we just have functions and
they're fine, but you can define a lens
that maps over things, you can
define a lens, so take a step back.
So what I've done here is I brought
in the lens library from Lambda,
it's a fairly naive.
If you're gonna use a lens library and
like really commit to lenses,
I would highly recommend looking around
there's one called optica I think,
and then there's a few
other ones out there.
But definitely wanna focus
on [LAUGH] no pun intended,
the top parts, the top level,
simple stuff for this class.
So I usually define
a little namespaced object,
because my lenses tend to be the same
names as the things in the app.
So I like to namespace it with L,
[LAUGH] and what we've done is we've said
LensProp('name'), and that'll be the name
lens, and we have lensProp Street.
And that's the street lens lensProp
address, that's the address lens,
how would I use that?
Well, we have view and
over to view one of these things,
I have this nested object and
if I wanna view the street say,
I'll just call view,
I'll pass it the lens that I want.
Street, and
street takes an address, right?
So I have to actually compose[(L.address,
L.street,
)] lenses composed like functions, and
they let me jump into the address and
into the street and
I can just view that on this user.
So let's do that was console.res,
console.log(res) and
let's node lenses 0
there is is named maple.
Let's get the name L.name, Is maple.
So I was able to jump in to
the steeply nested structure
through composition of properties,
that's cool.
What if do over,
over allows me to modify that toUpper,
so I can say hey,
jump into the name, name part and
let's just pull this out into a street
addrStreetName [LAUGH] that I lost it.
That's fine, did I copy it?
I copied it sweet all
right addrStreetName, and
we're just gonna say over this lens,
we're gonna turn it to upper.
And what's interesting to me
is that this provides a very,
very clean way to jump all
the way down there, change it and
get the whole thing back and
it's immutable.
It made a copy of it along the way, and
it can do so in a very efficient way.
And if we're thinking about functors, and
we're thinking about these properties as
kind of like opening up a box and
getting the next thing,
and opening up that box and getting the
next thing, then boxing them all back up.
That's how maps work, right?
You're mapping over these things and
getting out of target and
then putting more back together.
And that's largely how these
are implemented under the hood,
also means that we can start to make,
I don't think this has L.mapped,
but if I had a Either.of this
name I could totally do that.
I could totally say, jump in and
go over my either, and
then get to the name,
turn it to uppercase.
So this could be inside a task,
and we can jump inside of functors
inside of properties inside of
different parts of a giant structure,
hit that one piece and
then put it all back together.
And that's map by definition, open stuff
up, let's get it out and change it and
then puts it back together for you.
So this stuff gets really,
really powerful,
we're not gonna do that right here, but I
do have a lens package that does do that,
if you wanna look at my GitHub.
It was just porting Edward
commits lens library and
most people these days are using
pro functor lenses, yes.
>> Are these explicitly using
something like an observer pattern,
or is this more like
a reader mode documentation?
>> That's a great question,
so we're not holding
on to a ref and
having any kind of wired changes.
This is very similar to
closures ref stuff, or
they had that view library that's
a little out of date now, but
it was similar to this stuff where
they kinda treated it like lenses.
This is different, it's literally like
treating properties as a functor and
there's a Pumping them up and
changing stuff and putting them back, and
profunctor, lenses are implemented
a little bit different give you the same
power, probably more power.
And you could jump through functors and
all sorts of stuff in properties,
you could also do this with like
a lens that says, hey, you know what?
I'm gonna grab the first or
the zeroth right?
Should be Lens prop, whoops, 0,
then we could say, yeah, we have users,
right, and we'll just start with L.0.
And we could pass in users,
now we're jumping through the array,
of all the,
I guess have to grab the first
one out now to look at it.
But look, we jumped through the array
of users grab the first one, and
then change maple.
And again if I was to call mapped on a
different lens library that supported that
it would run through everyone and change
every name and do it all on mutable.
So these are really, really powerful,
they're really just getters and
setters that are unmutable and
let you compose like functions.
You're kinda like I have this ref to the
street name now, as you kinda mentioned.
It's almost like a reference to a big spot
in a big structure and you're able to just
get in there and change it, and
come back out without loosing your data.
Which is really nice, especially if you're
doing this really nice composition, and
you're just like in the middle
of your composition,
you wanna change one little value.
But typically with a setter, you would
throw away the entire structure, change
the value and then as your composition
goes, you've lost the entire structure.
Lenses preserve the structure, so as you
run through your pipeline of functions,
the structure is maintained,
you just changed one piece.
>> This person said worth mentioning
lenses composed backwards, but
you already covered that earlier
>> That is worth mentioning yes for sure,
normally composition would run name,
street, address, bomp.
It would go right to left,
this actually goes left to right yeah
that's good mention, good call out.
Lenses composed backwards for if you
start to see how it's implemented you
see why but it's weird to see that there
are composed like left to right instead of
right to left where you always see.
But this is a standard
function composition,
this is not a special lens composition.